# In the Zone

One of the greatest things about hiking the pacific crest trail, was the time that I had to think. I would often tell people after I got back that you have so much time to think. All you had to do for months at a time was walk. Anything else was strictly supplementary. 

Now that I am back I can d=only further see the value of the time and space that I had for long and drawn out sessions with nothing but me and my thgouths. I had the space to go as deep as I would like for as long as I wanted. I could think about whatver I wanted with little to distract me from my task. I often thought about my time alone in deep instrospection as playing with my thoughts. I was not afraid of the open space that came with it, nothing to distract me or take me away, I was simply immersed. 

Its a lot harder to get to that state now. That is one of the biggest things that I miss about trail. Here in the world of time and of things, I simply don’t have the time. And even when I do have the time, there are other things that actively captivate my attention. In society, there is always something you _could_ be doing that is closely available to you. Bits of novel stimulation a few clicks and taps away. Opportunities that you _could_ be working towards. things you could be buying, people you could be talking to, places you could be going. Life is lived in the steps ahead. 

That is not to say that I did not dream and hope f the things I could be doing on trail. much of the time I spent brooding over my life choices and how i’ve come to where I am. I spent my time thinking about people to reach out to again and ways I want my life to go when I get back. The difference lies in the medium that which these choices were founded upon. On trail you cannot act on these choices. all you can do is think. think about your life. think about mistakes and you r accomplishments and your hopes, and why you never replied to that frined years ago. I loved getting deep into these critical verses with myself. analyzing what i’ve done wnad what I want to do. make intentional decisions about how I want to live my life when I get home. I used this trail as a reflection ground. a chance to think in the purest of ways. Free of outside influence and an abundance of time. In no way could I have made the realizations about my life and philosophy without the freedom of abundant time and space.  